
## Page 16


NEPAL PHOTOVOLTAIC QUALITY ASSURANCE (NEPQA) 2025
# 1.3.3 Technical Requirements
i. The Charge Controller must have deep discharge protection and must be compatible
to the battery type used. For Lithium Ion, deep discharge protection shall be managed
by BMS.
ii. Low Voltage Disconnection (LVD) for lead acid batteries must not be less than 11.4V
for 12V system and 11.4X, V for 12X, V system voltage. Where X is a natural number
with the same value. For 6V system, the LVD must not be less than 5.7V. Setting
point must be within +/- 2% at 25°C.
iii. Low Voltage Reconnection (LVR) must not be less than 12.5V for 12V system and
12.5X, V for 12X, V system voltage. Where X is a natural number with the same value.
For 6V system the LVR must not be less than 6.25V. Setting point must be within +/-
2% at 25°C. Charge controller designed for Lithium Ion, LVR is not applicable.
iv. High Voltage Disconnection (HVD) must be within the range of (14V-15V)X, Volt for
12X, Voltage system. HVD should be below 15X, V for flooded lead acid batteries and
below (14- 14.1)X, V for VRLA Gel and AGM batteries. For 6V, VLRA batteries, the
HVD must be within the range of (7.0 – 7.05)V. For Lithium Ion battery, HVD must be
at 4.2X, V for X number of 3.7 V cells Lithium Cobalt Oxide (LiCoO ) in series and
2
3.6X, V for X number of 3.2V cells Lithium Ferrous Phosphate(LiFePO ) in series.
4
Setting point must be within +/-2% of Manufacturer’s claim at 25°C. Other than above
mentioned voltage system for Lithium Ion, the HVD must be in the range of 13% to
21%higher than nominal voltage. Where X is a natural number with the same value.
v. Usage of electro-mechanical relays is not permitted.
vi. The charge controller to be used in street lights must have at least 3 stages of
dimming functionality.
vii. The Charge Controller must include
a) Protection against reverse polarity must be provided in both the PV module and
battery sides.
b) Short circuit protection on load side must be provided.
c) Over current protection on the load side and surge protection on module side
must be provided.
viii. The allowable Printed Circuit Board (PCB) for solar charge controllers is
a) Glass epoxy
b) Metal core printed circuit board (MCPCB)
ix. The charge controller enclosure must have at least IP20 protection according to IEC
60529.
x. Charge controller up to 10A capacity must have an inbuilt connected switched mode
power supply (SMPS) based mobile charging point with an efficiency of at least 80%.
xi. The efficiency of the PWM charge controller must be at least 90% and MPPT charge
controller must be at least 95%.
xii. For PWM based controllers, the quiescent current consumption must not exceed
a) 20mA at nominal voltage (the non-critical indicators are turned off) for charge
controller sized up to 20A.
6

---

## Page 17


NEPAL PHOTOVOLTAIC QUALITY ASSURANCE (NEPQA) 2025
b) 25mA at nominal voltage (LCD Display) for charge controller sized up to 20A.
xiii. For MPPT based controllers, the quiescent current consumption must not exceed
a) 25mA at nominal voltage (the non-critical indicators are turned off) for charge
controller sized up to 20A.
b) 35mA at nominal voltage (LCD Display) for charge controller sized up to 20 A.
c) 40mA at nominal voltage for CC (LED indicators) above 20A and up to 60A and
60mA at nominal system voltage for CC (LCD display) above 20A and up to 60A.
d) 100mA at nominal voltage for CC above 60A.
xiv. For MPPT charge controller having no load terminal, only charging side parameters
will be tested.
xv. The warranty of the charge controller must be of at least:
a) 3 years for controllers with capacities up to 60A
b) 5 years for controllers with capacities above 60A
xvi. For PWM charge controller, the following information must be included on the label
of the controller. The label must contain the following information:
a) Name of the Manufacturer
b) Brand, Model and Type
c) Rated capacity
d) Nominal voltage
e) Serial Number
f) Input current
g) Load current (not applicable for charge controller having no load terminal)
xvii. For MPPT charge controller, the following information must be included on the label
of the controller. The label must contain the following information:
a) Name of the Manufacturer
b) Brand, Model and Type
c) Rated capacity
d) Voltage range
e) Serial Number
f) Maximum wattage
7